CP372 Assignment 2 - Bonus Features
====================================

We did both options

  Option A: Selective Repeat using a single timer.
  Option B: Packet corruption simulation with checksums.


OPTION A: SELECTIVE REPEAT (single timer)
-----------------------------------------
Files: sender_sr.py and receiver_sr.py

How to run it:

  Terminal 1:
    python receiver_sr.py --port 5005 --window 16

  Terminal 2:
    python sender_sr.py --file myfile.txt --port 5005 --window 16

The whole point of Selective Repeat is that, unlike Go-Back-N, the receiver
does not throw away correct packets just because an earlier one went missing.
It buffers anything that lands inside its window and acknowledges each packet on
its own. Once the missing packet finally arrives, a whole run of buffered
packets gets delivered to the file in order at once. The sender, for its part,
only ever resends the packets that were actually lost, never the ones that have
already been acknowledged.

Sender side:
  - It keeps a sliding window with a base (oldest unacked packet) and a
    nextseqnum (next packet to send), and an acked flag for each packet.
  - It fills the window, sending packets back to back without waiting.
  - ACKs are individual. When an ACK for packet a arrives, only packet a is
    marked acked. The window slides forward only when the base packet itself
    gets acked, and then it jumps past every packet that is already acked.

The single timer requirement:
  This is where Selective Repeat normally cheats a bit. The textbook version
  gives every outstanding packet its own timer. The bonus asks for one timer, so
  I run a single timer that always tracks the oldest unacknowledged packet (the
  base). When that timer fires, the sender retransmits only the packets in the
  current window that are still unacked, and skips the ones already
  acknowledged. That "skip the acked ones" step is exactly what separates this
  from Go-Back-N, where a timeout resends the entire window. So with one timer I
  keep the selective behaviour where it matters most, which is not wasting the
  link on packets the receiver already has.

Receiver side:
  - It keeps a receive base (oldest packet not yet delivered) and a buffer of
    packets that arrived out of order.
  - A packet inside the window gets an individual ACK and goes into the buffer.
    If it filled the base slot, the receiver delivers it and every buffered
    packet right after it, sliding the base forward.
  - A packet just below the window was already delivered, which means an earlier
    ACK was lost, so the receiver re-acks it so the sender can move on.

Why it is better, and where it is not:
  At the same loss rate, Selective Repeat sends far fewer packets than Go-Back-N
  because it does not resend things that already arrived. In my testing at 20
  percent loss on a 100KB file, Go-Back-N averaged around 300 retransmissions
  while Selective Repeat averaged around 24, which is close to the number of
  packets that were actually dropped. It also finished noticeably faster. The
  cost is complexity: the receiver now needs a buffer and has to track which
  sequence numbers it is holding, which is more work than Go-Back-N's single
  "next expected" counter.


OPTION B: CORRUPTION SIMULATION WITH CHECKSUMS
----------------------------------------------
This works with all three protocols. It is controlled by the receiver's
--corruption option.

How to run it:

  python receiver_gbn.py --port 5005 --corruption 0.05
  python sender_gbn.py --file myfile.txt --port 5005 --window 16

The 0.05 means each incoming datagram has a 5 percent chance of having one
random bit flipped before it is decoded.

How the detection works:
  Every packet carries a 16 bit Internet checksum in its header, the same
  checksum scheme used by IP, TCP, and UDP. The sender computes it over the
  whole packet (with the checksum field set to zero) and writes it into the
  header before sending. The receiver recomputes the checksum over what it
  received and compares. If a bit got flipped anywhere in the header or the
  payload, the recomputed checksum will not match, the decode step rejects the
  packet, and it is discarded exactly like a lost packet. The sender's timer
  then fires and it retransmits, so the file still arrives correct.

Where it lives in the code:
  The checksum itself is internet_checksum in rdt_common.py. Packet.encode
  fills it in and Packet.decode verifies it and returns nothing if it fails. The
  bit flipping is maybe_corrupt in rdt_common.py, and each receiver calls it on
  the raw bytes before decoding. The flip happens before the checksum check on
  purpose, so the checksum is what catches it.

Result:
  I tested this at 5 percent corruption on a 50KB file and the received file
  still matched the original by size and SHA-256, with the corrupted packets
  showing up as extra retransmissions. So the checksum is doing its job:
  damaged packets are caught and resent rather than written to the file.